[SOUND] So, we have defined and
analyzed an approximation algorithm for
multiway cut.
What else can we say about this problem?
First we had this cool
geometric embedding.
To interpret the LP relaxation and
then we used it for
inspiration to design our rounding.
Can we get a better randomized rounding to
have a better approximation for multicut?
Is it possible to get
better than 3/2- 1/k?
Well, the answer is yes.
For t to equal to 3 for example,
it's possible to get 12 11ths,
by using the linear programming
relaxation to find a better rounding.
And, so, instead of just using
these balls, we can represent
the problem of finding a good randomized
rounding as a linear programing problem.
Finding the right way to
do randomized rounding
can be expressed as linear programming.
So we round the LP relaxation
using a linear program.
That's cool.
And then, for larger k,
the same method can also be used to
try to get a better approximation.
It's possible to beat this
three-halves approximation.
However, The problem is APX-hard.
It is not possible to get 1 + epsilon.
There is no approximation scheme for
this problem if p is different from np,
of course.
So let's look a little bit at the story
behind the story of the multi problem.
The first paper that dealt with
approximation algorithms gave us
a little bit of a story
about applications.
This is what they said; they said,
this problem comes up in
the minimization of communication
costs in parallel computing systems.
It also comes up when you assign
program modules to processors.
When you try to partition files
among the nodes of a network.
When you try to assign users to computers
in a multicomputer environment.
And when you try to partition the elements
of a circuit into the subcircuits,
that will go on different chips.
That problem, in a way,
is more geometric, so
it is perhaps a little bit easier because
it's a more special case, if I may say.
So this problem, variance problems come
up in a number of settings where you have
to assign something to something else and
there's an underlying graph structure.
Now, who started studying this from
the viewpoint of approximation algorithms?
Here are the first people who designed the
basic algorithm we saw at the beginning
of this chapter.
Elias Dalhaus, David Johnson,
Mihalis Yannakakis,
Christos Papadimitrou and Paul Seymour.
They proved the APX hardness and
they gave the approximation with min cuts.
Some of these names, you have seen before.
These people are well known in
the field of approximation algorithms.
Then, who came up with
the geometric representation?
Calinescu, Karloff, and Rabani.
They came up with a geometric embedding,
and how to use it.
That is really cool I think.
This is really the most novel idea
of this chapter in my opinion,
and this is how they got the 3/2- 1/k.
Further who came up with the ways
to improve this approximation by
getting a better randomized
rounding by finding the correct
rounding using a linear program?
David Karger, Philip Klein, Mikkel Thorup,
Cliff Stein, and Neal Young.
They got the 12/11.
So these are the main steps
of designing approximation algorithms for
the multi we cut problem.
Now what?
Well let's see.
In the past five weeks we have studied
a number of techniques in the design of
approximation algorithms rounding
the input in the way that maybe adaptive.
Writing a linear programming relaxation
a tool we have studied at length.
Randomized rounding some finds
a sophisticated version of randomized
rounding.
Probabilistic analysis techniques in
the context of set cover in particular,
to try to prove that our result is good,
and
your geometric interpretation
of the LP relaxation.
This is already a good array of tools.
This is starting to be a solid
knowledge of approximation algorithms.
In terms of problems, what problems
have we studied in the past few weeks?
Vertex cover, knapsack, bin packing,
set cover, multi-way cut.
Five basic foundational
problems of optimization.
They are all and for
all of them we design good approximation.
And each of them was an opportunity for
us to study a new technique either for
designing approximation algorithms or for
analyzing the quality of the solution.
So what's missing?
Well, there are still a couple of
important techniques that are missing.
If you want to discover them,
you'll have to take the follow-up course,
Approximation Algorithms, Part II.
In which, we will study LP duality,
a fundamental basic tool
using linear programming.
Primal dual algorithms using LP duality to
have efficient approximation algorithms.
And some indefinite programming.
A really powerful technique for
problems that were
previously seen, seemed out of reach so
if you want to learn about these
techniques take approximation algorithms
part two, I hope to see you there